in this video
Let us learn that implementation of merge sort
algorithm now we're discussing merge sort algorithm
We will be given an unsorted array and we have
to sort it
That is our ultimate goal now let us see what is
merge sort algorithm
So we will be given an array and let us
apply what we just learn
Now let us divide this array into two and that
is do the sort of merging
So to divide into half we need to find the
middle
So we have start and end start plus end by
two will give the middle index
Thus we can find two halfs of the array and let
us sort and merged them
So let us write a function merge by passing the array it
start mid and end Let us create a temp array of
the same size where we will keep our resulted array
and we need variables i j and K for first
half second half and the resultant array temp I should
refer The first element of first half that is index
start J should refer the first element of second half
that his index mid plus one K should refer the
first index of new array that is index zero
So initialise I J k
And what was the next step in sorting and merging
Comparing the first elements of both the sub arrays So
compare five and ten and we have five less ten So
at five to the new array temp that is what
we are doing is checking if arr of I is
less than arr of j and it is
So we have to add arr  of I to temp
That is temp of k equal to arr  of I
So the element is copied it now we need to increment
both I and K
Now what if arr  of I was not less than
arr  of J that is See the next comparison here
arr  of i 20 is not less than arr  of J
ten so they must have an else condition in the
code
And if that is the case then J th element should
be copied to temp so right temp of K equal
to arr  of J
And now we have to increments J and K and
for how long This should be repeated until we reach
the end of either of the sub arrays that is
end of
First array is mid and end of second array is
end
So until I reach is mid or j reaches end
So put this code inside a while loop while less
than or equal to mid and J less than or equal
to end
And is it done No
J reached the end here but still the recent element
in the first half which is not copied to the
new array temp
so we have to handle that kind of elements
also
So after coming out of the while loop copy all
elements that are not copied
So we can use a while
Loop from I till we reach mid So while i less
than or equal to mid copy I th element to temp
so temp of k equal to arr of I
now increment both I and k so
This while loop will add any remaining elements into the
new array so that is solved
But what if it was the other way around That
is all elements of first half are added But
there are elements in second half which are not added
to temp
So we have to write code for that too Same
logic use of while loop from J till we reach
end
So while j less than or equal to end copy
J th element to temp that is temp of K
equal to arr  of J now increment both J k
So that is done
We have all elements sorted in the temp array
Now we can simply copy these elements into the original
array.